== Getting the Game ==

Download from here:

  http://insideastarfilledsky.net/testDemo/

Make sure to write down your demo code.  When you launch the game the first time, it runs in full-screen mode, and you'll be prompted to enter your code. 



== Recorded Games ==

Every time you play the game, your whole experience is saved in the "recordedGames" folder as a compact text file.  This is extremely useful for testing and debugging:

1) PLEASE take the time to send me the recording of your very first game (when you go through the tutorial the first time and try to figure out how to play).  By watching your game, I can hopefully pinpoint stuff that was confusing.  Kinda like me watching quietly over your shoulder, but remotely and asynchronously.

2) If you encounter what seems like a bug or a glitch, quit the game (ESC) and send me the last recorded game file.  I can watch your game on my end, which will replay the bad behavior for me and help me fix the problem.

3) If the game crashes, send me the last recorded game file along with a description of what happened right before the crash.  I can hopefully reproduce the crash on my end.

4) If there's some other issue that you have with the game---balancing or difficulty or general confusion---you can potentially send a recorded game that illustrates the problem along with your report.

5) If you type messages on the PAUSE screen, I'll see those in your recorded game too.  You can use this feature to document your thoughts as you play.




== Tutorial mode ==

The game includes a simple tutorial that both explains the controls and gradually exposes you to additional gameplay mechanics.

This is the EIGHTH iteration of this tutorial.  At this point I've pretty much given up on the "show, don't tell" approach, and almost everything is explained at some point with brief text messages.  Previous tutorials worked for some people, but were a horrible experience for others.  I don't want anyone to fall through the cracks, and the point of this game is not to figure out the basic mechanics anyway (the point is what emerges AFTER you figure out the basic mechanics).

But even with this verbose approach, something might be missing.  Is it clear enough?  Were you able to figure out the various gameplay systems?

After you go through that whole process once, subsequent games will jump right into the full matrix of mechanics from the start.
